Chapter 3 The Wei Family Tomb Mirror Array.
In the year before the San Cha He Kou murder case, there was a big flood. According to past experience, if there was a lot of flooding in the first year, there would be a high chance of drought in the following year. Therefore, in the summer when the body was found at the bottom of the river, there was unusually little rain and the weather was scorching hot. There were several times more people swimming in the river than in previous years, and several children who didn't know how to swim or the depth of the water drowned one after another. Although death is inevitable, it was still heartbreaking to see so many people die. Once a female body was salvaged from the riverbed, the news spread throughout the city, and the number of people swimming in the Haihe River suddenly decreased.

The body was found around June 28th on the lunar calendar, which was the day when Tu Weiba Li cried at the grave. After more than half a month, only two people drowned in the Haihe River, both of them were foreigners who were unaware of the situation. Although the number of people drowning in the river decreased, the river patrol team was not happy because they received less money. In the past, when they salvaged bodies, charities would give them money, but when there was no work, there was no reward.

Master Guo was unmarried and had only one older brother who did not eat or drink. Besides that, he had no other relatives. However, he often helped poorer neighbors and friends, but he never had extra money. When the rice jar in his house was empty and life became difficult, he had to find outside work and help people with funeral preparations by making paper people, paper horses, and earning a few dollars to support himself.

He had a younger apprentice in the river patrol team named Ding Mao. This young man was capable, clever, and especially good at handling things outside. One day, the two of them found a big job. A wealthy old lady from the Lou family in the south of the city had died. The family was rich and powerful, and this funeral would be grand. First of all, they hired the best papercut artist in the city. If you were to ask what a papercut artist did, it was basically making paper art. In the past, the top layer of the roof of a house was made entirely of paper, which was also considered a craft. Most families couldn't make it themselves and had to find a papercut artist to do it. When making the papercut, they also had to say some auspicious words like "family peace and prosperity, wealth entering the house," etc. In this profession, they also had to make paper people, paper horses, and paper houses. Any paper art that the host family requested, the skilled artist could make it.

Master Guo had this skill, and he and Ding Mao had learned it well. They made paper art at night and made "horses for delivering messages" during the day. When it was time for the funeral, the main hall of the mansion was set up with a mourning hall, and filial sons and grandsons knelt in front of the deceased's body and kept watch. Relatives and friends came to express their condolences in an endless stream. In the old society, wealthy families held funerals particularly seriously. Two simple archways were set up at the entrance of the mansion, with a horizontal plaque on one side reading "mournful wind" and the other side facing "cold moon." There was also a larger paper archway in front of the door, with the words "a big event" written on it, and paper people and paper horses were listed below it. Inside the long shed, there was a group of drummers and trumpeters. The number of people who came to pay their respects was so many that two "messenger horses" were needed to greet and send them off. After the two brothers made the paper art, they had to go and be "messenger horses" for the family.
What is "Xin Ma"? Nowadays, not many people know about it when it is mentioned. In the past, it was a custom for wealthy families who lived in large compounds with several courtyards, known as "shenzhai dayuan". According to the rules at that time, during the mourning period, two servants were assigned to stand at the front and rear gates wearing blue collared shirts, red belts, red pants, and thin-soled boots. They also carried a large whip and wore either a red or black hat. When guests arrived, the servant with the red hat would guide them to the courtyard and the one with the black hat would lead them to the altar to pay their respects. The two servants were referred to as "Xin Ma". Although it was not necessary to have Xin Ma for the funeral, wealthy families cared more about the pomp and circumstance. If they did not arrange for Xin Ma, it would seem less grand. If they did not think of it in advance and did not have suitable people, they would let the two paperhangers do it. They knew the rules and looked impressive, leading guests as if they were performing on stage. Besides receiving their deserved reward, they also enjoyed a good meal and drinks.

During the old days in Tianjin, when wealthy families held funerals, they paid attention to the grand procession, starting with the mourning ceremony and the sending-off of the deceased. There were various superstitious customs, such as carrying the coffin to walk around the four doors and throwing paper money to drive away evil spirits. During the entire funeral procession, two people were assigned to throw paper money, also known as "sa zhijin". This was done to ward off evil spirits and ensure that the procession went smoothly. The paper money was thrown high and widely, falling down like flowers. The whole process took three days, including paperhanging, Xin Ma, and throwing paper money. They received three rewards and extra remuneration. This was the benefit of working for wealthy families who held funerals. Throughout the year, they might participate in three or five funerals. After the burial, a feast was held, and the last day was especially sumptuous, according to traditional customs with eight courses.
In the afternoon, the host came to attend, and sure enough, there were the most exquisite "Eight Big Bowls". The specific eight dishes in the "Eight Big Bowls" varied according to the level, but they definitely included eight hot dishes. This family's "Eight Big Bowls" were considered the best in Tianjin Wei. The eight dishes included four steamed and four stewed, chicken, duck, fish, and shrimp. The dishes were served in large bowls and were constantly replenished, allowing guests to eat as much as they wanted. The funeral procession's drummers, porters, monks, Taoists, and servants were all eating and drinking in the large tent outside the door. Guo Shifu and Ding Mao usually worked in the river patrol team and didn't get to eat anything good. The people of Tianjin Wei were especially particular about their food. There was a saying in Tianjin Wei that went, "If you don't eat seafood, you're not living." Seafood in Tianjin referred to "crabs, prawns, and yellow croakers". Only during the period from Qingming to Lixia each year would seafood be available. Even the poorest people would sell their clothes at a pawnshop to buy two pounds of seafood to satisfy their cravings. This kind of family was not considered unable to live in Tianjin Wei. Sometimes they would help others with funerals and take the opportunity to eat and drink. Ding Mao was young and had no self-control. When he saw good food, he couldn't help but drink more. In addition to being dizzy and hot-headed, he would blabber to anyone he met, regardless of whether he knew them or not. He said to a fat monk next to him, "Let's stick together, not for any other reason, but because our relationship is not ordinary. My wife's nephew is your cousin, and your cousin's aunt is my wife." The fat monk had also drunk quite a bit and was confused by Ding Mao's words. He asked, "Amitabha, what kind of person are you, donor?"
Dingmao laughed and said, "I am your real father." The fat monk angrily replied, "My real father, who lacked eight generations of virtue, has long been buried in the yellow earth. Who do you think you are?" Master Guo had also been drinking, but fortunately he was still conscious and quickly discouraged Dingmao from taking advantage of his family by talking nonsense. This fat monk's real name was Li Daleng, and his Buddhist name was Shuntong. Nowadays, when people hear his Buddhist name, they know it, but otherwise they might mistake him for a delivery man. He was not an honest monk and had entered the temple without any clear background. In Tianjin, there were many social idlers who did not work but enjoyed their lives. They lived day by day and had no houses or land. Their entire possessions were only one set of clothes. However, even Li Daleng, who was poor, had a set of decent clothes to wear when he went out, which he called his "walking clothes." He relied on this outfit to cheat and deceive people. If his house caught fire, he was not afraid, but if he fell into a ditch and dirtied his clothes, he was heartbroken. For example, Li Daleng had a monk's robe, a shaved head that shone brightly, and a few scars on his head. When there was a funeral, he would pretend to be a monk and chant scriptures for the family, earning some money to eat and drink. Li Daleng was also red-faced and drunk, and was about to argue with Dingmao, but when he saw the person next to him trying to stop them, he recognized him and said, "Hey, isn't this Master Guo, the river god?" He quickly stood up and bowed in respect.
Master Guo wondered what kind of monk this was, dressed in a monk's robe and drinking and eating recklessly. He even greeted him with clasped hands, probably a member of some shady organization. He returned the greeting and chatted with the fat monk Li Daleng. When the people around heard that he was Master Guo from the River Patrol, they all came over to toast him. This is called "the shadow of a tree depends on its form." A few days ago, a female corpse was found at the mouth of the Sancha River. The corpse was covered in dark green river moss and tied up with iron blocks. It had sunk to the bottom of the river for many years. This matter was widely spread in the city and everyone knew about it. The people present all said that River God Master Guo had the ability and was worthy of being the "River God" who blesses the local area. Master Guo usually had good popularity. He spoke humorously and could attract a group of people wherever he went. But he was most afraid of others mentioning the words "River God". He shook his hands repeatedly and did not dare to be called by this title. Seeing that it was not early and they had eaten and drunk enough, they took the rewards they deserved and chatted with the people at the same table. They bid farewell and left from Loujiazhuang to the place where they lived in the west of the city. This trip was not close. The two of them walked on this night road after drinking, and they walked the wrong way among the dark houses and ended up on a road in a large area of tile houses. This place was called the Wei Family Tile House, also known as the Wei Family Grave, and was the most sinister place in the south of the city. 

Since the end of the Qing Dynasty, the size of the city has expanded greatly, and most of the streets on both sides are equipped with pole-mounted electric lights. Although the slums are not as bright as they are now, they can still see the road clearly. Large patches of flat houses are divided by roads and alleys, except for the area in the old city that faces north and south. There is no such thing as east, west, south, and north around the houses and streets in Tianjin Wei. The roads and alleys are all diagonal, and people who don't know the way in will feel like they are walking into a maze.
Out-of-towners who come to Beijing to inquire about directions will find that Beijing locals give simple directions by saying "go north" or "go south", which is related to the layout of the city. Buildings in the old part of the city are all oriented north-south, with few diagonal streets. In contrast, Tianjin is the opposite, and locals don't use the cardinal directions when giving directions. Instead, they use "road" for north-south streets and "route" for east-west streets. Guo and Ding drank from afternoon until dark and found themselves sitting on the side of the road in a quiet area with dark streets and empty houses. They realized they were in an area called Wei Family Tile House, formerly a large cemetery. The area was once surrounded by cemeteries, but as the city expanded, more and more houses were built on former burial grounds.
Speaking of the Wei family's tile house and Wei family building, it was originally called the Wei family's tomb. After it became a residential area, people avoided mentioning the tomb. If someone said they lived in the Wei family's tomb, wouldn't that be like living with ghosts? So it was renamed the Wei family building, which actually didn't exist. Later it was called the Wei family tile house. When older people mentioned the Wei family tomb, they often thought of "hanged ghosts". As for the Wei family tomb where the hanged ghosts were buried, it was not too long ago. In the late Qing Dynasty, there was a family named Wei in Tianjin who made a living by selling pastries. The eldest son died young, so the two remaining brothers divided the inheritance. The second brother inherited the family business and sold steamed food, while the third brother went to become an apprentice in a goldsmith shop. After learning the trade, he opened a small jewelry store, and eventually expanded it into a gold building. The second brother also did well, opening a pastry shop and expanding it into a three-room store. They hired a young apprentice to help with sales, while they worked in the back. The two businesses were adjacent to each other and prospered.
Who would have thought that the good times wouldn't last long? In the year of Gengzi, the Eight-Nation Alliance broke through Da Gu Kou and entered Beijing, with Tianjin being the first to suffer. Rampaging soldiers looted the streets and shops, and San Ge's jewelry store was robbed and burned to the ground, never to recover. San Ge and his wife couldn't bear it and committed suicide. Second brother's pastry shop was also looted, but luckily it was just food and they were able to borrow money to reopen. Later, they expanded their business, bought property, and became successful. However, Wei Er Ye often remembered the tragic end of his younger brother and sister-in-law. 

Brothers are like bones and tendons, and wives are like clothes. Clothes can be mended, but if the bones are broken, they can't be fixed. Only close relatives can accompany you throughout your life. Wei Er Ye couldn't help but shed tears when he thought of his brothers. He even invited monks to pray for the deceased and bought a good burial site outside the city to rebury his family's ancestors and his younger brother and sister-in-law. 

The burial site is the foundation of a family, and descendants are the roots of a family. A good foundation brings good fortune. Wei Er Ye bought this burial site to ensure the safety of his family and the prosperity of his business. The burial site was called Wei Family Cemetery, with a ancestral hall called Wei Family Temple in front of it. The area was quite large, with dense forests and misty air all year round. However, it was also known to be a mysterious and strange place.
Six

The area around Wei's family tomb, within a few miles, is full of ancient trees, including tall pines and cypresses. There are many foxes, yellow wolves, hedgehogs, and badgers hiding in the woods. Evil spirits often appear here, and according to the words of Zhang Banshen, a godman, this is because this place has a lot of spiritual energy. If the feng shui is bad, there won't be these spiritual creatures. As a result, the second master of the Wei family caused a big lawsuit and lost everything he had inherited from his father. Then, the epidemic broke out, and the Wei family was destroyed, becoming a ruin without a master. After the Republic of China, as the urban area expanded, Wei's family tomb was covered with many tile-roofed houses and the place was renamed Wei's Family Building. After a few years, it was renamed Wei's Family Tile House. The old tall trees and tombstones were long gone, but people are still accustomed to calling this place Wei's family tomb.

Master Guo and Ding Mao recognized this place as Wei's Family Tile House and had heard that a hanged ghost was buried here. They were not very familiar with the place but had been there a few times before. They figured they had taken the wrong turn after drinking too much and ended up here. Most of the people living here are ordinary people, and the alleys and roads are like spider webs. Last year, the entire area was flooded, and now only a few abandoned houses are still occupied by homeless beggars and scavengers. Although it is considered part of the city, there is no electricity or water supply, and it has not been demolished.

Master Guo doesn't want anyone to call him River God. If he is not mentioned, it's fine, but if he is, he is sure to have bad luck. His teacher was right, he cannot help but believe in this superstition. When a person has a run of bad luck, even drinking cold water can cause problems. Wei's Family Tile House is in the opposite direction of his home. How did they end up here in the middle of the night?

Master Guo wanted to go home quickly. He and Ding Mao found the right direction and walked along the road, thinking that it would be easy to leave Wei's Family Tile House once they got past it. However, all the alleys and roads around them were slanted, and they kept running into dead ends. They were lost and didn't know where to go.
Ding Mao said: "Brother, the Wei family's tiled house is really spooky. We've been walking for so long, we should have reached the main road outside. Why haven't we gotten out yet? Are we being haunted?" 

Master Guo said: "Brother, don't talk nonsense in the middle of the night. Even though these houses are empty now, they used to be inhabited. Where would ghosts come from?" 

Ding Mao said: "I'm not talking nonsense. The Wei family's tomb has two hanged ghosts buried in it. This is not something I made up. Everyone in and outside the city knows about it." 

Master Guo said: "When the Wei family buried the hanged ghosts, it was still the Qing Dynasty. What year is it now? If every grave site that has ghosts causes a disturbance, then there will be no place for the living to stay. Besides, people are more afraid of ghosts than ghosts are afraid of people. We have lived our lives honestly and have never done anything to make people poke our spines from behind. Even if the Wei family's tiled house has ghosts, they would be avoiding us as we walk." 

Ding Mao works for the corpse retrieval team and is not afraid of unclean things. He said: "Brother, don't doubt what I say. If the Wei family's tiled house doesn't have ghosts, what are those things on the roof?"
During the scorching hot and stuffy nights of summer, even staying still can make one break out in a sweat. But after hearing this, Master Guo felt a chill down his spine and was confused. He asked, "Brother, why are you talking about this late at night? The roof is covered in tiles, what else could there be?" 

Ding Mao replied, "If you don't believe me, just look up." 

Master Guo looked up and didn't see any ghosts on the roof, but he could vaguely see that there were several mirrors hanging on the roof ridge tiles of the tiled house under the moonlight. Not just one or two, but eight out of ten of the houses in this flat house had mirrors hanging on the roof ridge tiles, and the mirrors were not taken down even after the residents moved out. It's impossible for the residents to have nothing better to do than to hang mirrors on the roof. 

Ding Mao said, "Brother, do you see it? Who hangs mirrors on the roof to live their daily lives? The Wei family's building used to be a chaotic grave where people were buried. It would be strange if there were no ghosts here. I wish I had some paper money with me during the day of the funeral procession. It is said that if you encounter lonely ghosts or wild ghosts chasing after you, you can throw some paper money to drive them away and be safe."
Master Guo once witnessed a dispute between two families in the city that almost turned deadly. The cause of the argument was that one family had hung a mirror on their roof, claiming that the other family's poorly constructed roof was ruining their feng shui by having its eaves facing their front door. The mirror was supposed to block the bad energy, but this caused fights between the two families. However, it was discovered that all the houses in the Wei family's tile-roofed house had mirrors on their roofs, tied with iron wires, which were covered in dust and were not even made of copper. Master Guo believed that this was just a feng shui arrangement and that it was unlikely that there were any ghosts or evil spirits involved. However, Ding Mao smelled a stench coming from the Wei family's house, which could indicate that there might be a dead body inside. Master Guo agreed to investigate, and they found a white thing lying against the wall that was moving and emitting a foul odor.
Eight

The bungalow had no streetlights, and the two couldn't see clearly what was on the side of the road. They smelled the stench of corpses, which looked like a white lump from a distance, but seemed to be moving when they got closer. They had to pinch their noses as the smell was too strong. When they got closer, they saw that it was a corpse covered in white maggots.

The two were disgusted and couldn't help but feel nauseous. However, they held back their urge to vomit because they didn't want to waste the eight big bowls of food they were going to eat. They realized that the stench was coming from the body, which was likely that of a wild dog, and not a human. They also spotted two dead cats nearby.

If someone dies on the roadside in the city, someone will help bury them, but in this deserted area, no one cares about dead animals on the roadside. It's not surprising that they are left to rot and smell.
Master Guo and Ding Mao understood what was going on and stopped overthinking. At this time, the clouds in the sky moved away, and the moonlight shone brightly, illuminating the houses and roads very clearly. Following this road and turning a corner, they could walk out of Wei's tile house. Why did they end up walking around in circles and not finding their way out?

The two of them thought that they had probably had too much to drink, and their minds were still confused. Plus, with the moon hiding behind the clouds and no lights on the roadside, it was inevitable that they would get lost. Now, taking advantage of the moonlight, they hurried to walk. As they walked, Master Guo felt like something was following them. When he turned around to look, there was nothing there. He thought to himself, "What's wrong with me today? Why am I so suspicious?"

Master Guo was uneasy, and without realizing it, they had already arrived at the intersection. Although they had walked out of Wei's house, he still felt something following him. His neck felt cold. At this moment, he saw the moonlight shining on the ground, and there was a very small black shadow besides their shadows. Ding Mao also saw it. They were both shocked. When they turned around to look, they saw a thing that was bigger than a cat but smaller than a dog, with long fur and a long tail. It suddenly rushed out from behind Master Guo and ran along the wall like a flash of smoke, disappearing in a blink of an eye.

The two of them stood there, staring in amazement, not understanding what had happened. Later, they found someone who understood these things very well and explained in detail what had happened that night in Wei's tile house. Before this, there were many foxes and badgers in Wei's tile house. After the graveyard turned into a residential area, it was still not peaceful. The residents were not at ease until a geomancer pointed out that they should hang mirrors on the eaves of their houses. These mirrors were not hung randomly but formed a formation. Those things with spirituality entering this flat house would often lose their way and be trapped until they died inside. It was common to see dead cats and dogs. The residents of Wei's tile house drowned many people in the year of the big flood. It was said that it was because of the sinister mirror formation that they suffered retribution.

After the flood receded, there were many empty houses left in Wei's tile house. Whether it was day or night, no one had any trouble passing by. Perhaps because Master Guo was called "River God" during that period and had a series of unlucky events, even lonely ghosts and wild ghosts did not dare to approach him when his yang energy was strong. But if his luck was down, it was like a disaster was about to happen, and his yang energy would weaken. At that time, there might have been only a fox or a wildcat trapped in Wei's tile house. It saw that Master Guo and Ding Mao had weak yang energy and used an illusion to trap them. It followed them out of Wei's tile house. There was another possibility that this wildcat was trapped in Wei's tile house and could not get out. Its destiny was to die, and it only managed to escape from it by hiding beside Master Guo, the River God.
Nine
It's hard to say if it's really true. Master Guo couldn't figure it out at the time, and it was all in the past. Until after liberation, in the 1960s, one night he rode an old bike home from work. It was already the beginning of autumn, and the autumn wind was bleak. The weather was getting cooler day by day, and it was deep into the night. There were almost no pedestrians on the road. 
That day he was salvaging a floating corpse in the Haihe River and was busy all day. He didn't have time to eat and was starving. He wanted to hurry home and have a hot meal. He rode onto a road along the river, and suddenly the old bike couldn't move forward as if something was pulling the back of his bike. 
Master Guo had to stop the bike and looked back. He saw a furry thing running across the road behind him. It disappeared in an instant. He didn't know if it was a raccoon or not. It looked like one, but the road was too dark to tell for sure. 
At this time, a young man riding a bike came from behind. He was wearing a factory's work clothes and had a lunch box clipped to the back of his bike. He looked like a worker who worked the night shift in the factory. The young worker was pedaling his bike very fast and passed Master Guo, creating a gust of wind, and went straight ahead.
Master Guo thought to himself, "Is this young man in such a hurry to be reincarnated that he's riding so fast?" He looked at his own bike, which was fine, and he could still pedal, so he continued on. Suddenly, he heard a loud "plop" from up ahead, and when he looked up, he was startled to see that the young worker who was riding his bike very fast had ridden into the river. There was a wall more than half a meter high along the riverbank, and this person was riding too fast and hit the wall, flipping over and falling head first into the river, with his head stuck in the mud.

Life is precious, how could it be taken lightly? Master Guo didn't dare to slack off, and without even taking off his clothes, he threw his bike aside and jumped into the cold river, desperately dragging the young worker to the shore. This person's nose, ears and mouth were full of mud, his face was pale, and he had stopped breathing as soon as he was dragged up. If it had been half a minute later, this person would have been beyond saving. Fortunately, he had met Master Guo, who had saved him. If it had been someone else, they might not have been able to save him even if they wanted to.

After Master Guo saved the young worker and sent him to the hospital, and his condition stabilized, he asked him what had happened. How could he ride his bike into the river on such a wide road? Was he too sleepy from working the night shift and dozed off while riding his bike? This was too dangerous. The young worker said that he didn't see the river when he rode there. He could clearly see that it was a road, and he didn't know how he ended up riding into the river.
The doctors and nurses in the hospital thought this kid was scared when they heard these words. The lights on the roadside were bright, and he wasn't night blind. How could he mistake the river for the road? Who knew that a few days later, another worker who was off duty at night rode his bike and plunged into the river. No one saw it happen this time. It wasn't until dawn that two feet appeared on the surface of the river, one with a shoe and the other barefoot. The person was motionless and had already passed away by the time they were pulled out of the river. Some things couldn't be said out loud at the time, but people knew in their hearts that there might be a water ghost in this place, luring people passing by into the river. If it weren't for Guo Master's bike suddenly becoming unable to pedal, he would have been the one drowned that night. No matter how skilled he was or how good his water skills were, he wouldn't have been able to survive if he had sunk into the river mud. Additionally, when Guo Master's bike couldn't pedal, he vaguely saw a black shadow run past him from behind. Perhaps it was the little thing he saved from Wei's Tomb years ago, coming back to repay him.